Hello reader! This is the Creator notes for Corroded Citadel:
created in 7/5/2025:

So...

Uhhh...

Where do we start with?


Inspiration:

  So, after I've discovered the editor, and memorized all the enemies, my mind had started calling "Toxic Territory" as "Corrosive Territory" for some reason.
  Soon enough, I imagined of a map named called "Corrosive Citadel", which contains enemies from "Toxic Territory".
  Then I think of making "alternate maps", like the shelved "Autoscrolling Arete" being a alternate version of "Restless Ridge" (the most fun map to solo in my personal experience).
  But.....

"Burnout":

  Unfortunately, even after I can now make maps again (got my home laptop back), I feel I can't make something work.....
  ...for the rest of June.
  Certain maps were scrapped/removed (for now) due to some unknown issue I forget (a "Wacky Wonderland" alt and "Timeless Theater" were the ones).
  And older iterations of "Corroded Citadel" somehow isn't fun to make it work during this "burnout"
  Which, fun fact: One older iteration of "Corroded Citadel" was intended to start very big, but gets progressivly smaller the further you get, then gets bigger after the halfway mark.

  And this "burnout" doesn't help, as I discovered how to download "Itch.io" games and play them.
  I was playing games like (to have you try them yourself):
    * "UNBEATABLE [white label]" (most recommanded out of the list. It also has a very great OST you can listen on YouTube (also, the Steam demo is the most updated version of "UNBEATABLE") ).
    * The "Deltarune" demo (I didn't even knew Toby Fox has the Deltarune Demo on Itch.io).
    * "Tower of Tamasatchi" (turn-based rpg by the creator of "vivid/stasis").
    * And "Beatblock" (I suck at that game).

How did I recovered? :

  Well... I guess that something struck in my head like 2 days ago, which I finally decided to complete the map.
  Also because Glitch (The server web hoster used for the Map Editor, and Sandbox) is shutting down (in 2 days) at the time of writing this, and I want to complete this unfinished map before that happens.
  So, I guess these factors motivated me to complete the map.

  Anyways:

The "Map Content":

  So, "Corroded Citadel" is (I already said) a alternate version of "Toxic Territory".
  It means... All enemies that're originally from "Toxic Territory" will be placed in the same sections (Corrosive and Toxic in 1st quarter and Corrosive Sniper in the 2nd quarter for example) as "Toxic Territory".
  However, the difference between the two are how the map is "charted", and the additional enemies added.

  The map, instead of varying sizes like "Toxic Territory", gets a bit bigger and longer every section/quarter.
  And that the map is twice as long as "Toxic Territory".
  The enemies are also placed different.

  And... additional enemies were put into "Corroded Citadel" (Crumbling, Sniper, Blocking, and Cactus).

Ending:

  So, that's all I have to say in these notes.
  I hope you, who is reading this, to have a great (and suffering in the sun) summer!
  And never burn yourself out!


~LegacyGatling
