Hello...
This is the Creator Notes for Puppeted Paradiso

Created in 9/3/2025:

By: Legacy Gatling

NOTE: It's recommanded to play this map in the Region Editor due to missing enemies used in this map, and multiple bugs.

Table on Contents:

Non-spoiler part: Line 12
Spolier parts (if you find out): Line 170

Context:

Have you always have a imaginative mind that thinks of things that don't even exist, or stories that only you can understand?
Well, for me, I have a very imaginative mind of stories that only I can understand, and ideas that doesn't exist.

Like for example, this map.
One time I was taking a daily evening walk around my neighborhood, I am daydreaming, while listening to, from what I remember, Camellia.
Which said daydream is that there's a map based on Paradiso in "The Divine Comedy", but said Paradiso is controlled/puppeted by a entity (unknown at the time of the daydream), which lure angels/random beings to their doom by putting anomalies into the Paradise.
The desire to create this map ultimately overtake me, as I cancelled what I considered a not good rebalance of Overburned Oven, and started making this map.

Map layout:

This map contains a total of 84 areas (including a secret, 2 victory areas, and multiple alternate pathways that you may find)

The map is structured into 9 sections of 4 areas, called "Spheres"
Similar to "Infinite Inferno", each Sphere would reference a certain Map that currently exist in the game, which each Area in the Sphere reference each section of the map.

Sperating those Spheres are vertical transitionary areas called "Bridges"
They're seperate and unrelated to the Spheres, since their purpose is to bring you to the next Sphere (the Bridges still want you to dodge).

Anyways...

Gated Entrance:
  This single area is the starting area of the map.
  Same goes with Cyber Castle.
  If I were know how to code things in, or if I were a dev, I would've put a requirement to enter into Bridge 1
  It'll say:
  "The closed gate has a lock that spelled out"
    "Ca/bo/then/ent / Mi/ono / Igni/jo/dris"

  Each batch of letters seperated by slashes represents a part of a Hero's name, being:
    "Ca"ndy
    "Bo"ldrock
    S"then"o
    C"ent"
    "Mi"rage
    Le"ono"
    "Igni"s
    "jo"tunn
    Vey"dris"
The reason why it's those heroes is that the Spheres represent the maps that each hero is from.
And to keep track of progress, if you have the heroes listed, the batch of letters corresponding to the hero will be turn green.

Sphere 1: Wacky Wonderland
  This section is the most average experience with Wacky Wonderland, toned down to fit the early areas.
  Sphere 1-1 contains Wavy and Zigzag.
  Sphere 1-2 contains Spiraling and Zoning.
  Sphere 1-3 contains Oscillating and Switch.
  Sphere 1-4 contains Switch and Homing.
  

Sphere 2: Shifting Sands
  This section contains enemies from Shifting Sands
  Sphere 2-1 contains Homing, Sand, and Quicksand.
  Sphere 2-2 contains Homing, Sandrock, and Quickand.
  Sphere 2-3 contains Crumbling, Sandrock, and Quicksand.
  Sphere 2-4 contains Slowing, Quicksand, and Sand.
  Cactus isn't in any of the areas, but you'll soon why.


Sphere 3: Coupled Corridors
  This section is unique, as due to the unique gimmick of 2 converging paths in the original Coupled Corridors.
  Instead of creating 2 diverging paths at the start of Sphere 3, I decided to Put only areas 1-20 for both Northern and Southern Route into 1 single Sphere.
  As since, the players will choose the Southern Route rather than the Northern Route, as it's "easier" in their eyes.
  And that areas 21-40 is just both North and South merged, and nothing special.
  So, Sphere 3-1 to 3-2 contain enemies from the Southern Route of Coupled Corridors...
  ...Zigzag, Enlarging, Mist, and Poison Sniper.
  And Sphere 3-3 to 3-4 contain enemies from the Nothern Route of Coupled Corridors...
  ...Charging, Reducing, Switch, and Lead Sniper.


Sphere 4: Quiet Quarry
  This section contains enemies from Quiet Quarry, and the usual big Wall enemies...
  Sphere 4-1 contains Slowing, with walls walking at a rabbit's pace.
  Sphere 4-2 contains Dasher and Liquid, with a single, big Wall.
  Sphere 4-3 contains Switch and Slowing, with a big Switch somewhere in this Area.
  Sphere 4-4 contains Gravity, Draining, and Slowing. No Ice sniper though.


Sphere 5: Restless Ridge
  THIS section is the only one that took the longest to create, and also a kick in the face for players that think all sections will be in the same area format.
  Due to having to:
    1. Build the layout
    2. Rebuild the layout so the Exit Zone's translate can fit into the Safe Zone of the previous area.
    3. Translate Every last Exit Zone.
    4. Add Walls and enemies
  This section made me realize that making areas similar to Restless Ridge will be very time comsuming (especially areas like Restless Ridge)
  And that while playing Restless Ridge is fun, making a similar version of Restless Ridge is not.
  Anyways:
  Sphere 5-1 contains a simple "pass through the opening", with Slippery, Normal, and Homing.
  Sphere 5-2 contains a simple "get to the end as fast as possible" with some gaps if you're not fast enough, with Freezing and Normal.
  Sphere 5-3 contains a more complicatied version of "pass through the opening" by adding another Exit Zone every 3 gaps, and you can't take too long. Also contains Turning, Immune, and Disabling.
  Sphere 5-4 contains somthing similar to Restless Ridge 39, with Immune, Gravity, and Liquid (the area is originally intended to have Repelling, but the aura is too invisible with the map background).


Sphere 6: Terrifying Temple
  This section follows the same structure as the original Terrifying Temple 
  with Sphere 6-2 to 6-3 takes you inside the "Temple".
  Sphere 6-1 contains Blind.
  Sphere 6-2 contains Ninja Star Sniper and Blind.
  Sphere 6-3 contains Summoner, which summons Blinds on contact, and Slasher.
  Sphere 6-4 contains Lotus Flower, Blind, and Ninja Star Sniper.


Sphere 7: Burning Bunker
  This section is a near copy of the layout of the original Burning Bunker.
  Though the darkness is made to be not dark enough that since I have to provide a lantern if it's too dark.
  Sphere 7-1 is a harder version of one of the obsticle courses in Burning Bunker 23-22.
  Sphere 7-2 contains Homing, Slowing, and Fire Trail.
  Sphere 7-3 contains Dasher, Enlarging, and Fire Trail.
  Sphere 7-4 contains Draining, Sizing, and Fire Trail.


Sphere 8: Frozen Fijord
  Sphere 8-1 are multiple Frost Giants arranged to make a bullet hell pattern.
  Sphere 8-2 takes you into the caves, which you find Icicle, Slippery, and Snowman.
  Sphere 8-3 contains Ice Sniper, Icicle, and Snowman.
  Sphere 8-4 takes you out of the caves, and see walls in symmetry. Contains Snowman, Icicle, and Frost Giant.

Sphere 9: Ancient Abyss
  Sphere 9-1 contains Void Crawler, Void Swarm, and Normal.
  Sphere 9-2 contains Void Sniper, and Void Crawler.
  Sphere 9-3 contains Dripping, Void Crawler, and Normal.
  Sphere 9-4 contains Void Drain, Dripping, Void Swarm, Void Sniper, Void Crawler, and Normal.

Victory Area (Normal Path):

  "You gaze up into the skies, where invisible strings from Empyrean pulled the Spheres"
  "4 vp awarded"




Anyways, that's all of the areas for the "Normal" path.
There's more stuff hiding in the Spheres
If you want to know more about them (and already know about them), go to Line 170.







































Well, did you found out, or you just scroll down?
So, yeah, this map has alternate shortcuts, called "Hemisphere", they're mainly harder than that normal "Sphere" route, but they only last for 2 areas instead of 4, so you can obtain a shorter time with them.
If you have trouble completing the Hemispheres, don't blame yourself, the map is very hard, and that it's completed with only investing in only speed.
So... :

Hemisphere 1: Wacky Wonderland Hard
  Hemisphere 1-1 contains Penny Switch, Zoning Switch, Switch, Penny, and Spiraling.
  Hemisphere 1-2 contains Oscillating, Oscillating Switch, Switch, and Homing Switch.


Hemisphere 2: Shifting Sands?
  So, the problem with some maps used in this map, they don't have a "Hard" mode equivalent for them.
  But I can improvise, and deal with this situation.
  Like for Shifting Sands, I use the Dunes Shortcut as the reference.
  Hemisphere 2-1 contains Sand, Cactus, and Quicksand.
  Hemisphere 2-2 contains Sandrock, Crumbling, Cactus, and Quicksand.


Hemisphere 3: Coupled Corridors?
  Same problem goes with Shifting Sands, but I decided to just swapped 2 enemies from each route (or replaced them).
  Hemisphere 3-1 contains Zigzag Switch, Switch, Enlarging, and Lead Sniper.
  Hemisphere 3-2 contains Charging, Poison Ghost, Reducing, and Mist.


Hemisphere 4: Quiet Quarry Hard
  Hemisphere 4-1 contains a single big Wall, Liquid, and Lunging.
  Hemisphere 4-2 contains Ice Ghost, Slowing, Draining, and Gravity.


Tetartosphere: Restless Ridge Hard
  Well, I lied when all these shortcuts are called "Hemispheres", but I made this the expection, as it took TOO LONG!
  Also, touching the exit zones in the active zone will transport you to the "Void Storage Unit", which you can try again (not a softlock).
  Also, this is the nerfed version of Tetartosphere. 
  If you want to play a much harder version, there's "Terrible Tetartoshphere" in the Puppeted Paradiso Folder.
  Anyways, Tetartosphere is based on Restless Ridge and Restless Ridge Hard Area 40.


Hemisphere 6: Terrifying Temple?
  I tried my best interpreting these maps as it they're hard versions.
  Hemisphere 6-1 contains Lotus Flower, Summoner, which summons more Blinds, and Ninja Star Sniper.
  Hemisphere 6-2 contains Lotus Flower, Slasher, and Ninja Star Sniper.


Hemisphere 7: Burning Bunker Hard
  Hemisphere 7-1 contains Draining, Lava, Sizing, Fire Trail, and Lunging.
  This area is also rotated 90 degrees from the original version of Burning Bunker Hard.
  Hemisphere 7-2 contains Draining, Lava, Sizing, Lunging, and Wind Ghost.


Hemisphere 8: Frozen Fijord Hard
  Hemisphere 8-1 takes you into a cave...
  ...and contains Snowman, and Slippery.
  Hemisphere 8-2 takes you outside...
  ...and contains Icicle and Ice Ghost.
  This area's walls are coated with a exit zone outside, so you can't hug the walls.


Hemisphere 9: Vast Void
  Unlike the other Hemispheres which doesn't have a hard mode varient, I'd considered Vast Void as the Hard mode equivalent to Ancient Abyss.
  Hemisphere 9-1 contains Dripping, Void Sniper, Immune, and Homing.
  Hemisphere 9-2 contains Void Swarm, Homing, Immune, Void Crawler, and Void Drain.
  You may notice a weird teleporter in Hemisphere 9-1. 
  That is the way into the second ending of the map.
  There's a way in, but you need to search around Sphere 9.













So, you found out?
So, the teleporter, well, if in game, would say (if requirement isn't met)
"The Empyrean demands that 4 halves of a Sphere needs to be explored"
Which means, to enter the alternate path, you need to complete 4 entire Hemispheres (Tetartosphere is considered one).
But since this is just a map with no mechanics, it just works like a normal Teleporter.



Empyrean:
  All enemies here are Immune, Normal, and Withering in different sizes and speed.

  This section is basically the reason why I called the map "Puppeted Paradiso"
  As in my story, the "Void", which is Vast Void, has taken over Hell (Inferno), Purgatory (Purgatorio), and Heaven (Paradiso).
  They're the ones that created the Hemispheres.
  And they use Paradiso and changed it to a huge degree, which resulted in this map.
  And Empyrean is just the last Breadcrumb before the actual trap, which is the part where the Void tries to kill you.

Eternal Descent:
  This section is a homage to the removed "Eternal Descent" from Pristine Purgatory.
  In which there're 5 areas, which reference the Spheres, but manipulated to include enemies from Ancient Abyss and Pristine Purgatory.
  And after the last area of the Descent, you loop back into the first area of the Descent, a never ending loop.
  So, is this a softlock?
  Well, no, there's a way out.
  You just need to look around the descent, and see anything that looked a bit different.
  If you have trouble, try using the tools of the Region Editor.





Pristine Sphere:

  Well, I assume you find the way out of the Descent, and now, you're in Pristine Sphere.
  Which is one of the original Spheres before the Void transformed it.
  Though you're not free, as the Void knows you've escaped "the part where they kill you", and now slightly transforms Pristine Sphere with random stuff they find, and tries to kill you in desperation.

The thing that stuck to me for this section is the comment that Joni, one of the users in Discord I frequently asked to playtest my map, said in the feedback about Pristine Sphere:
  "Pristine spheres difficulty is tricky to say, those areas are special, if someone is focused all the time then i dont think there is a way to die, but a moment of distraction and the area can catch you off guard"
  -Joni
In short, you have to focus very hard to complete this last section.

Pristine Sphere 1 contains Firefly, and Normal.
Pristine Sphere 2 contains Teleporting at high teleporting rate, and Normal.
Pristine Sphere 3 contains Pumpkin and Normal.
Pristine Sphere 4 contains Teleporting, Pumpkin, and Normal (though no Firefly, as it feels unfair with the stuff you have to deal with).
And after that, the victory area.

Victory Area (Pristine Path)

 "You gaze up towards the fraudulant Spheres, as you descend down from them"
  "6 vp awarded"
  "Broken Halo added to your accessory collection".




























Conclusion:
  So, that's all I have to say for these notes.
  Special thanks to Joni, and DarkPhoenix for giving feedback and playtesting on my map.
  I think I'll take a slight break from map-making, as I have alot of stuff to do (screw the SAT)
  And, SILKSONG TOMORROW yeahhhhhhhhh

Legacy Out.
