Hello reader! This is the Creator notes for Dexterous Dungeon:
created in 8/3/2025:

Hello, Legacy here.

So, it's been, like almost a month since my last map, Corroded Citadel, and it's not because of burnout.
You already know that Glitch servers shut down, and if you didn't know, now you know.
That includes the Web browser version of the Region Editor.

However, like about more than a week ago, I made a Discord account (finally), and finally recieve the file version of the Region Editor (a user on the Evades.io server, Joni, helped convert the file version from a unusable tgz to a zip file).

So, for the first map I made since Glitch shut down, I decided to ask the Discord server, in #brainstorming, of a map idea.
One user, named "gok4rt" suggested making a maze-like map using enemies.
However, this "idea" didn't go through, as it'll be a pain to put the XY coordinates for every single enemy, and it'll lag the area alot.
Though, this idea reminded me of the Dungeon areas of Mysterious Mansion, more specifically, the last Dungeon, with a high enemy density, and big, fast enemies coupled with small, slow enemies.

And I went to work, creating a layout, and putting enemies in the first 8 areas. 
Then, I decided, for once, I let the users to provide feedback on the map (the first 8 areas).
Which users Rapidice and (mainly) Vixino playtested, and provided feedback on the map.
Their feedback resulted in turning this map from slow, and lots of big enemies, to a few Big enemies, and lots of fast ones.

Which, makes me step a little out of my comfort zone of making slow enemies in maps.
And fun fact: this map is made in under 2 days

Anyways:

The map:

    Dexterous Dungeon, is a dimmly lighted 16 area map, with areas that go both vertical and horizontal.
    The main idea of the map is being hard.
    It contains some enemies (in appearance: Normal, Homing, Sandrock, Sniper, Immune, Stalatite, Phantom, and Lead Sniper), but the enemies are overall fast.

Victory area text:

    "You frantically escaped and closed the dark dungeon behind you"
    "4 vp awarded"



Anyways, I am done with this map, and I think I may go back and rebalance my older maps, or make another one.
Eh, I'll decide later.

Bye!
    
