Hello, Legacy here.
This is the Creator Notes for my interpretation of Infinite Inferno.
Created 12/5/25
Updated: 12/5/25

So, it's been more than a month since last map made. And I have a slight reason for that.
I.
Have.
School.
It's pretty much the reason why this map took so long from the last map made in like 2 months ago.
Homework and the classes are a slight factor to why (homework ironically is the least boring thing to do) it took long.
Especially when I try to create maps in school, which is where most of my time making this map has come from.
And I'm not a great WASD player (I don't bring a mouse to school).
So it all boils down for like a few weeks after making like more than 50% of the map is that "I don't want to do this now", and I don't do the map.
...Until like 3 days ago, which I decided to just finish the map, since I just feel a bit motivated when playtesting with a mouse I guess.
Honestly, I didn't know I got this burst of motivation to finish the map.

Anyways, after "yapping" about where I've been let's get to "why" I decided to reinterpret a official map.


My Criticism of Infinite Inferno:
(Please note that this criticism may be outdated as soon Infinite Inferno gets a rework)
    So, Infinite Inferno, a map based on the Divine Comedy, specifically the Inferno part of the story, is created by Kaluub of the Evades Junior Dev Team.
    It has 9 Circles of Hell, where each Circle is dedicated to each sin, where they punish you for.

    Well, in Evades, the "Circles" in Infinite Inferno are sections of 4 areas based on a map that currently exists in game.
    For example, Circle 1 in Infinite Inferno represents Central Core with enemies from the map used in 4 areas, and Circle 2 represents Vicious Valley, with its enemies used in that map.

    While the idea is in fact very cool, as it uses existing maps for its Circles (in fact, Puppeted Pradiso, a custom map of mine, is inspired my this map)...
    ...the map layout, the use of certain maps, and other things bring the map a bit down.

    For "map layout", I'll personally say that while the First area of each Circle is meant to keep the height of the map the same, I'll say that I don't like how the 1st area of each Circle is
    used as a way to "transition" to the next set of horizontal areas, as it that area is used to represent 1/4 of the map being represented, and that area should be a normal area, while the area
    meant as a "transition" to the next Circle is its own area.

    For the use of certain maps, I'll say that there're 2 maps that're used that I think shouldn't belong in Infinite Inferno:

    First being Circle 7, which represents Magnetic Monopole.
    Magnetic Monopole, outside of Infinite Inferno, is a gimmick map, for which its gimmick is that there's gravity that forces you either up or down, and you have a 3rd ability in that map which
    You can switch the gravity.
    Interesting gimmick for the map.
    However, this Circle in Infinite Inferno is "worst" part of the map, in my opinion, by a huge mile.
    This Circle forces you to use this gimmick near the end of the map, after 6 Circles with normal movement.
    And you have to rewire your brain to adapt to the gravity flipping, since it limits your movement.
    And there's many more things I feel that I hate about Circle 7, that I can't type it out and make you understand it.
    I. Lost. Many Solos to just Circle 7 alone, and I haven't completed a solo of Infinite Inferno because of that single Circle.
    If this Circle were to be replaced with a different gimmick like Darkness from Haunted Halls or Burning Bunnker, I'll be very happy.

    ANYWAYS...

    The second Circle I think it shouldn't be in Infinite Inferno is Circle Infinity (which is a symbol, not a word), which represents Cyber Castle.
    Although I have nothing against this Circle gameplay wise (since it doesn't use that magnet gimmick mentioned earlier), I have something against this map themeatic wise.
    As you know, Cyber Castle is meant as the final map in the nonlinear progression of Evades.io, where you have to obtain every hero in order to enter.
    Infinite Inferno is one of the maps that's required to unlock Cyber Castle.
    So, it doesn't make sense of including Cyber Castle as a Circle when at this point of this non-existent progression, the player didn't know about the map.
    So, it's not appropriate to include this map as a Circle in Infinite Inferno.


  For the additional criticism, I'll say that this is a map that shouldn't be encountered mid-progression, as the player might choose this map as the map after they completed Central Core.
  Which can result in the utter confusion of the usage of enemies from the maps that they should've completed before going to Infinite Inferno.


My Reinterpretation of the Map, and (trying) to Adress my own Criticism.

    So, how did I adress my own criticisms?

    Well, first, I'll talk about what I did with the layout of the Map.
    So, in the official version of Infinite Inferno, the map is structured with the 1st area of each Circle being vertical, going down,
     while the 2nd to 4th areas of each Circle alternates from right to left.
    which then the Cycle starts again.
    This is used to maintain the same height of the map.
    However, for me, I didn't consider that.
    If you look at my map through the Region editor, I decided to have a vertical "transition" area to go from one Circle to the next.
    And the 4 areas in the Circle either go right, or left, which alternates between the directions.
    The transition areas also use one enemy type to show the next map you'll be seeing once you leave that area.
    Which addresses one of the criticisms mentioned, as now all 4 areas are now normal instead of one being reservered as a "transition" area and all three being normal.

    Now, I'll talk you about the references from other maps used from each Circle.
    One of the things I challenge myself, is to use maps that hadn't been used in my previous custom map, Puppeted Paradiso, to replace the 2 referenced maps that I criticized above,
    and to rearrange most map references used.

    So, the "map representation" from the original Infinite Inferno goes like:

        Circle 1: Central Core
        Circle 2: Vicious Valley
        Circle 3: Elite Expasne
        Circle 4: Glacial Gorge
        Circle 5: Assorted Alcove (was a official map before being removed, though Infinite Inferno is created after the removal of Assorted Alcove)
        Circle 6: Dangerous District
        Circle 7: Magnetic Monopole
        Circle 8: Grand Garden
        Circle Infinity: Cyber Castle

    However, the "map representation" from my map interpretation of Infinite Inferno due to those challenges stated above goes like:

        Circle 1: Central Core (considered the beginning of your progression, so that's why its spot remains unchanged)
        Circle 2: Grand Garden
        Circle 3: Glacial Gorge
        Circle 4: Dangerous District
        Circle 5: Assorted Alcove (I like how Assorted Alcove is put in the middle, so it remains there)
        Circle 6: Vicious Valley
        Circle 7: Elite Expanse
        Circle 8: Withering Wastland (the only other map I could think of other than the next Circle below)
        Circle Infinity: Ominous Occult (the map feels like something similar to Central Core, but uses harder, and faster enemies. Also, I slightly reference its Hard version with its walls)

    And also, for Circle Infinity, its area height has been decreased and length increased, as when playtesting it myself, I feel that a taller version of Ominous Occult doesn't feel right at all.
    So, I just decreased the height, and it felt better.

    Also also, the difficulty of the reinterpretation is raised a little bit from the original

    And now lastly, to adress the third part of my criticism, I just replaced the exit portal at the end of Infinite Elevator with a teleporter, which is used,
    similar to the teleporter used in the end of Security Gate A of Cyber Castle, to block players from accessing it until they collected all the heroes from which the Inferno reference.
    So, it'll act as like a progression marker to a non-linear game, and to prevent ignorant players from just playing Infinite Inferno when they just created their account.
    Maybe, when attemping to enter the map without completing the requirement, you will just get a message with a fraction that shows your progression to unlocking the map, and a clue of what
    map you should go next.

Well, thank you for reading this.
I... pretty much have nothing else to say other than...
Have a great day... I guess.

Legacy Out.
        
        
    

     
