Welcome to the Creator Notes for Tranquil Tundra

By: L3gAcyGAtLing
(For any devs or jr devs of Evades.io, feel free to download, and edit this map to add to the offical game, just credit me if you do that, I should've said that in the previous notes)

Story:

    Real Life Context:
        I.... hate Spring and Summer.
        Yes, the time of the year where the weather is hot, and you can go outside and hang out in shorts, and have fun in the beach.
        I like everything about those, but the thing that I hate the most is the SUN.
        The SUN is really hot and unbearable for me, and I have to put on sunscreen everyday, just to go outside and have fun (not fun to wash it off during shower)
        Especially when Marching Band season starts, which I have to be in the Sun for 3 hours at 6 pm.
        Pretty much, everybody in this school that I am friends of like summer the most, except me.

    Editor Context:
        This map was originally meant to be a ENCORE, or alternate version of Overnburned Oven.
        However, I don't know how to make a setup to lead to the ENCORE, so I "scrapped" it (also this map used to be called "Fevent Freezer").
        However, I didn't scrapped the concept of a "cold" map, so it became this map.
        Also, near the end of this map, I thought a bit and think this is the oppisite, or ENCORE of Grand Garden (sorry for the ULTRAKILL stuff).

Map Design:

    This map is 28 areas long, and properly introduces Wind Sniper and Phantom (Wind Sniper only appears in Cyber Castle, while Phantom appears for some part of Mysterious Mansion).
    Areas are called by Temperature, and starts at 56, and decreases by 4 every area.
    Snow becomes more intense the further you go into the map.
    This map also uses enemies that looks cold blue, or icey (Icicle, Dasher, Snowman, Ice Sniper, and Freezing).

    Layout:
        Areas 1-7 features Dashers and Icicles, both horizontal and vertical, with Freezing coming in at area 3.
        Areas 8-14 have Wind snipers and Icicles for the first 3 areas, with Icicles being swapped out with Snowman for 2 areas, but both enemies join together for the last 2.
        Areas 15-21 have Phantoms and Icicles for the first 3 areas, with the latter being switched with Ice Snipers for 2 areas, and join together for the last 2.
        Areas 22-28 is a slight motif to Rusty Railroad, my first map. Being that the main enemies (Being Dasher, Phantom, and Wind Sniper) having their own miniboss area for the first 3 areas.
        the other 3 areas are enemies that're mainly side enemies (Icicle, Ice Sniper, and Snowman, excluding Freezing as I forgot about it), which those have their "miniboss" area.
        The 3 areas above and the last area have features frost giants, that restrict where you should go.

Victory Area:

    The victory area is meant to represent a ship, which will depart, after you tour the beatiful terrain of the cold.

    Anyways:
        
        "The quietness of the chilling tundra made your sleep on the departing ship a peaceful one."
        "3 VP awarded"
        "Unlocked Chillagon"
        "Snow Goggles added to your accessory collection"

    "Why there's a hero name this time?":
        You said, already read my creator notes for Rusty Railroad.
        Well, I can't come up for a good name for those heroes at the Railroad (also, there's 2 heroes I have to name)
        This hero name for the Tundra, has existed before discovering this editor.
        As I discovered the polygon called "Chiliagon", which has 1000 sides (which means it look like a circle when not looking closly).
        I pronouce it as "Chill - a -gon", instead of the intended pronouciation.
        And it stuck with me for a very long time.
        So, I used this mispronouciation as the hero's name.

Ending:
    This map is very simple, as unlike others, it doesn't have to require me to measure the x-y coords too much (Oven)
    And not overstressing the enemy variation (Railroad).
    Eh, I hope you have a good time playing this map.


Legacy Out.

    
        

