Welcome to the Creator Notes for Misty Meadows [Legacy's Interpretation]
By: Legacy

Creation Date: 10/1/25


Well, hello there user!
It's been...
...like almost a month since a map is added to this repository, and there's a reason for why.
So, I've been trying to make a map similar to Mysterious mansion, with multiple routes.
But it's hard to like make one.
I asked one of the Discord users in the Evades Discord Server, MiStYsTaR, to draw a map, they drew it.
And even if I have a reference to use, it's just hard to create.
And also, I have school, so I only have time to use the Editor on a chromebook, in which I conveniently downloaded the Editor using my own repository.
And during my school periods, I remember of a idea to "make Misty Meadows in my interpretation", during summer.
Which resulted in this map, being completed in under a week, similar to the completion time of Tranquil Tundra, and Overburned Oven. In which both are created in school.
So, without futher to do:


The Original Map:

  The original version of Misty Meadows is made by a user named potask.
    He's a very skilled player at Evades.io, better than me by alot.
  And during the time he played around on the Editor, he created this map.
  It's a 40 area map, and mainly features Grass and Mist as its enemies.
  The map also has additional enemies placed around the areas (Flower, Dasher, Repelling Ghost, and Liquid).
  The thing that make this map stand out, is the use of lighting in the middle of the map, and the Grass enemy being set at high speeds, or at a high amount, which makes you look out for them.
  You can play the map in its folder in this folder, if you want.
  Though, be warned, its difficulty is based on potask's skill, which means that its very hard to complete.


My Interpretation of the Map:

  So, I looked at the map, and try to interpret as my own.
  I try to keep some concepts of the map, like the usage of the Grass and Mist, while changing some parts of the map.
  For example, instead of the usual 40 areas with 10 areas per section, its has 32 areas with 8 areas per section.
    The reason why I choose 32 areas as it makes it stand a bit out with the odd number of areas.
  Another part that I changed of this map, is the use of the lighting, which I'll talk about down here.
  And obviously, I removed and added some enemies into the map.


  Area Design:

    Areas 1-8 is the area that's slightly similar to Grand Garden per say, with the use of Grass, and the Green enemy.
      Though instead of Turning, which is used in Grand Garden, I used Oscillating instead.
      The Grass, although there's less in numbers from the original map, it's compansated with the huge size and speed of the Grass.
      Same goes with all the other sections of the map.

    Areas 9-16 uses the Mist enemy, while keeping the Grass and Oscillating.
      The areas from 9 to 16 is getting darker per area that you advanced.
      Which represent the clouds covering the sun, and its about to rain.

  Areas 17-24 uses the Liquid enemy, which is from the original version.
      However, the rest of the areas in this map is very hard to see due to how dark the areas are, since it started "raining".
      To compansate, at the start of the area, you're givern the lantern ability to see.
      And to be a little interesting, I adjusted most of the Liquid to have a Player Detection Range of around 250, the range of the Lantern's light.
      Grass and Mist makes a return, but not Oscillating, as Oscillating already makes things hard to sightread, which makes the area unfair especially in a very dark area.

  Areas 25-32 makes very interesting use of the Dripping enemy from Ancient Abyss.
      And this enemy is slightly the main motivator to interpret this map, as the enemy represents rain.
      And Grass, Mist, and Liquid are in there.

  Victory Area Text:
      "The soft rains and beautiful flowers helps you relax in the dark"
      "3vp awarded"


Conclusion:

  And this is the end of the Creator notes.
  Thank you for playing this map, or reading the Creator Notes.
  And special thanks to potask for creating the original map, for which if he didn't, this interpreation of the map won't exist.


Anyways...

Legacy Out.
