Hello there player, this is the creator notes for Overburned Oven:

Both map and notes are created by L3gAcyGAtLing.
(Well, this will be in a slightly different format from Rusty Railroad's Creator Notes)

Storytime:
    So, When I was browsing Evades.io, the official one, not the Editor, using f12 (devtools), I found a specific texture that looked like a baguette.
    I consider it as weird, and moved on.
    Until a week or 2 ago, where, since I found the baguette texture in the editor, started brainstorming ways to create a map using this texture.
    Which, I found my "eureka" moement when I thought "How about a map about a baguette burning in the oven, as a early april fools joke, for if the devs want to add this?".
    And that's how this map was born.

Another thing:
    A few days ago, when I'm like near 50% complete with my map, I watched a video on the history of Kasane Teto (a utau turned synthV vocaloid, very known for songs like Mesmerizer, or Tetoris).
    I found out in that video, she's created on April Fools day, and her favorite food is a baguette.
    Which, my map is meant for April Fools, and it's baguette themed.
    So, I accidentally, and unknowingly created Teto's Birthday Present (which is a burnt baguette).
    Well, that's a thing to check off why April fools is the International Holiday for the Internet (Crab Rave and Rivals Direct included).

General Design:
    This map contains 20 areas , that go vertically.
    Exp Pellets are 5 times the value of any normal area.
    Boldrock's (not available in the map editor) "Crumble" ability has less duration.
    This maps properly introduces the Lava enemy, which is used for only 2 areas in Withering Wastleland, and the other half of Burning Bunker Hard, plus the 2 areas in Dusty Depths (Magma Lakes).
    The map starts with a normal baguette, which over time, until the 75 minute mark, gets burnt.
    And this map doesn't use areas, but minutes in incriments of 5 (however, the time it takes to burn a baguette isn't accurate, please make the time accurate if this map becomes official).
    Safe Zones starts at a normal white, but progresses to a very red color, as the baguette gets burnt.

Enemies:
    Enemies in the first 10 areas uses colors that relate to the color of bread (Lunging, Sand, Sandrock, and Crumbling).
    Enemies in the last 10 areas uses colors that match fire, and burnt bread (Lava, Firefly, Immune, Stalatice, and Sizing).
    Both halves have a Fire Trail, as you're in a oven.
    And areas that contain Lava will always contain Draining, as well as a sitting Draining in most of the starting areas.
    As it's very unfair for players to have their run ended, as there's no other way to drain energy.

Victory:
    As the players conquer suriving the hot oven of this map, they'll see this victory message.
    "You looked at the once golden bread, now burnt. It now traumatized you for life."
    "2VP awarded"
    "Chef's hat added to your accessories collection"
    This map isn't intended to include a hero, as it's meant as a quick April fools joke.

Ending:
    So, this is currently my shortest created map and the shortest time I created a map.
    Luckily, as of me creating this doc, it's 13 days till April Fools.
    I might make a sequel/alt/encore map of this, maybe the opposite of burning, and have it contain a hero.
    Anyways...

          Legacy Out.
