Welcome to the notes and extras for Rusty Railroad.

Created by L3gAcyGAtLing.

Srry for the wall of text.

So, let's start with a story:

    So, this map used to be called "Switch Station", but I thought that I should create a new name, as that might be in the works (prob it isn't).
    This map also went through a redo, as xp gain per undiscovered area is all out of place.
    The theme of the map is railroads, seasons, and the 24 hour day, you go figure out how.

General Enemy layout:

    Bascially, each railroad is comprised of 8 areas, while each railroad section is consists of 4 areas.
    2 enemies are choosen as constants, which will appear for the entire railroad.
    and 3 enemies are choosen as temporary enemies, which will nonly appear for only that railroad section.

      Ex. Stalatite and Glowy are choosen as the constant enemies for the entire railroad, while Freezing, Icicle, and Charging are temporary enemies that only appear for the railroad section

    the first area of each railroad section will show the enemy types you'll be facing for the section.
    the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th areas of each railroad section will be a "boss" for 1 enemy in the temporary enemies.

      Ex. One area has Freezing as the "Boss" of that area, so it'll have a small varient, and a large varient. The next area will have Icicle as the "Boss" or the area, and so forth.

    However, at the last area of the railroad, the constants will also be the "Boss", and will have either a large varient, or a small varient, or both!
    This trope repeats for the entire map.

    Themeing:
       For Amaster (the map maker and Jr. dev of evades, told in the feedback that the enemies were placed are random, which, is actually true for a lot of the time, especially at the Desert Portion of the Railroad)
        
        Railroad 1 and 2: 
                Themed around plants and greenery, which is why it inclues enemies that're green, or plant-like (Grass, Turning, Toxic, Flower, Oscalating, Seedling).
                As since this part of the Railroad is the start of the day, Fireflies were added (their numbers start to decrease at Railroad 2).

        Northern Tunnel 1 and 2:
                Themed around you being in a dark tunnel, and approaching the cold tundra.
                Most enemies relates to said cold, or have shades of blue (Freezing, Icicle, Snowman, Draining, Liquid)
                While some are relating to the tunnel/darkness (Stalatice, Charging)
                Since it's the early tunnels, and it's dark, Glowy is added to the mix (my mind at that time was thinking of adding all of the "vanishing" enemies to a map)

        Railroad 3N and 4N:
                Themed around the cold tundra.
                Enemies here are related to the snow (Repelling, it's white), shades of blue (Blind, Dasher, Dasher Switch), or generally, just have the meaning of "cold" in it's name (Slippery, Frost Giant, Ice Sniper)
                Only section where a enemy is reused (Icicle).
                Wind Ghosts, while doesn't really look cold, and not fitting as it's not a "hard" version of the map, basically represents the cold winds, and wind snipers are a bit worse in my mind.

        Northern Tunnel 3 and 4:

                This is actually where the lack of cold enemies appeared, as me, the creator of the map, only used 1 enemy type (excluding the single instance of the Icicle) per section once...
                And the frozen looking enemies had run dry.
                So, This is a random section, especially at Northern Tunnel 4.
                In Northern Tunnel 3, the Stalatices returned, as you're in a tunnel, but goes away at Northen Tunnel 4.
                Also contains dark-like enemies (Reducing, and Switch)
                And Homing, which is there cause I think it fits with the Tunnel.

        Northern Tunnel 4 is where it's enemies are in theme, but it's off-theme of the map.
                The theme here is pink colors (Infinity, Infinity Switch, Disabler, Poison Sniper).(Also, I just put Infinity there on about the day it is implemented :p)
                The Homing now also has a Homing Switch, too.
                Since this areas is the "sequel" to the previous Northern Tunnel, I decided to use Mists.

        Southern Tunnel 1 and 2:

        Fun Fact: The desert section of areas were made after creating Railroad 5 and 6, which actually limits my enemy options.

                Same as Northern Tunnel 1 and 2, this is about approaching the Desert.
                However, due to the increasing lack of enemies options due to my map making policy on this map, I have to use enemies that don't really fit the theme.
                The theme, is mostly brown (Blocking, Quicksand, Sniper).
                While the outliners, mainly at Southern Tunnel 2, are Enlarging (through that enemy is justifyable, as Blocking are nothing without another aura), and Normal.
                Stalatice and Glowly returns.
                And Slasher is here to replace "Charging" (used it a few days after Slasher was implemented).

        Railraod 3S and 4S:

                There's more outliers here, as I'm running out of enemies.

                Some that fit the theme of "Desert", or Desert-like colors (Catus, Sand, Sandrock, Crumbling, and probably Static (yellow) ).
                While others don't (Radar, Exp Drain, Radiating Bullets).
                (Exp drain is added, probably as players get more xp when going from the Southern areas)

        Southern Tunnel 3 and 4:

                This is actually "in theme" with the previous Railroad, as the desert is hot, so the enemies are fire (not in internet slang).
                Though, there's some randomness (Lead Sniper, Force Sniper A, Immune).
                Draining was added in order for Southern Tunnel 4 to be a bit fair.
                This section has some theme (Fire Trail, Lunging, and Lava).
                Stalatices are tempoary there.
                And phantoms are added to mirror Northern Tunnel 3 and 4 (and also to make the desert portion harder).

        Railroad 5 and 6:

                This is created before the deset areas.
                The theme around this is autumn, usually with enemies that have the color of autumn (Wavy, Spiraling, Zoning, Slowing, Sizing, and the Switch Varients od the first 3)
                Or having the slight feeling of Autumn (Pumpkins, and Trees)
                Pumpkins being mixed with fakes is done on purpose.

        Destination:

                There enemies there are meant to show the Railroads you've been. And Barriers for easy crossing.


        
        
        


Stations and Checkpoints:

    Stations and Checkpoints is the core thing that inspired me to make this map.
    They only appear at either the start or end of the railroad.
    Inside of that area contains enemies that you might face for the railroad.
    Stations will have a "Playground" area, but Checkpoints won't.
    However, they all have a "debuff" area. But we'll talk about it later.

"Playgrounds":

    Usually, all Railroad Stations have a "Playground" area, which is where players can hang out without the fear of being destroyed by enemies.
    Playgrounds are areas where childern, teens, and adults can hang out and play without the fear of danger, unless if they make their own.
    Since I don't want any danger in those areas, I used enemies that don't hurt them or their run (Ghosts, fake Pumpkins, cati, etc.). 

    The "Playground" Areas:
        I'm going to say how the "Playground" areas are designed:

            "Botanical Gardens":
                  This area has wind ghosts, and background flowers, with a different colored center (It's not a Undertale Refernce, it's unintentional).
                  It's the most simple of the "Playground Areas".
              "Frozen Ponds":
                  This area is the only area that has low friction (low friction in the winter themed railroad will be a pain to balance).
                  The area has "Ponds".
                  The smaller ponds has a large Poison Ghost at the middle (for speed).
                  The bigger, center pond has a Barrier surrounded by standing Wind Ghosts.
                      This is intended for Cybot to gain the very powerful Barrier Scan outside of Research Lab or Cyber Castle.
                  The area also has Cati and Wind Ghosts to add with the fun of low friction.
              "Cremated Dunes":
                  This area has the second-most amount of entities.
                  The brown-like strips on the area are tried to represent the hills on dunes.
                  The darker-sand-like parts of the map, it's up to interpretation, but it acts like decor.
                  Similar to "Frozen Ponds", it has a Barrier enemy blocked off by Wind Ghosts, but at the top left corner of the area.
                  The area has a lot of standing, small cati, and a some larger, moving cati.
                "Outdoor Park":
                    This area has the most amount of entities (very laggy).
                    It has paths that lead to a wooden shack at the other side of the area.
                    At the Middle of the map, it has a fountain.
                    Everywhere, there're leaves and Fake Pumpkins, as this railroad is based on Autumn.

"Debuff" Areas:
However, due to editor limitations, there won't be anything what I said below in the map.
    These areas are only unlocked when you had beaten this map once.
    They're important for another area at the end of the map.
    These areas are comprised of "Basements", and "Handicaps".
    They appear inside of the Stations and Checkpoints.
    When entering, the area will give you a set debuff that last as long you're in the map.
    They also have text to indicate of what debuff you gotten.
    Let's go over them:
      Basement 1:
          "The still air in the floral basement had inflated your lungs"
            Your max energy capcity has been cut in half (max energy: 150).
      Handicap 1:
          "The officers gave you a electric collar around your neck, shortening your time downed"
            Your Death Timer has been shortened by 33%.
      Basement 2N:
          "The frosted air in the icy basement had made your legs sore."
            Your max speed has been reduced by 2 [(max speed: 15), this won't affect your speed bonus from your abilities (stream, sweet tooth, night, etc.)].
      Handicap 2N:
          "Officers wearing fur coats gave you arm braces, which drains some of your energy."
          Your max regen has been reduced by 2 (max regen: 5).
      Basement 2S:
          "The heated air in the hot basement have made you thirsty".
          All abilities have a extra 1 second cooldown (whenever possible to apply).
      Handicap 2S:
          "Officers wearing shorts gave you a blindfold, now you can't know what time is it."
          You can't see the cooldown of your abilities (the gameplay indications also won't show up).
      Basement 3:
          "The scented air of the vibrant basement have made you relaxed."
          All abilities are now weaker (in any way possible).
    "So, what does debuffs are used for, when they directly hurt you?", you're saying right now.
    Well, I'll explain later.

Victory areas:
    Obvious editor limitations, you won't see this in the editor.

    Obviously, every map must have a end, and this map is no different.
    So:
      Victory area for Reckless Railroad:
        "After crossing the lands the railroads crossed, there'll be more lands that you'll discover beyond your destination"
          "3 vp awarded"
          "Unlocked [Hero]" (The [Hero]'s name is meant to be interrperted).

    However, remember the debuff areas I talked about?
    Well, they're used in a different victory area, next to the general victory area, called "Destination".
    That victory area can only be entered if you have at least 1 debuff applied.
    So:
      Extra Victory area for Reckless Railroad:
        "You reached your destination, and with a yawn, you slept, dreaming of the lands you might confront"
        "x vp awarded" (x represents the number of debuffs you have on. Theoatical max is 5, but the true max is 8).
        Depend on your debuffs you'll be awarded with other stuff, starting at 3 debuffs.
        (3 debuffs applied): "Unlocked [Hero]"
        (4 debuffs applied): "Conductor's Hat added to your accessories collection"
        (5 debuffs applied): "Conductor's Coat added to you accessories collection"


Ending:
    So, one map completed, it's very great to finish it.
    And I learned how to balance maps, and use the editor.
    I hope I can continue making maps :).

        Legacy, signing off.
                    
